---
title: 'spatial.are.na'
date: 'April 2024'
summary: 'A project that visualizes the spatial relationships between images on are.na.'
tags: ['project', 'are.na', 'spatial', 'visualization']
live: '/arena'
---

As creatives, we often rely on visual inspiration to inform our work. We collect images, videos, and
other media that resonate with us, using these collections to spark new ideas. But what if we could
visualize the spatial relationships between these images? What if we could see how they relate to
each other in a physical space?

This was the idea behind spatial.are.na, a project that visualizes the spatial relationships between
images on are.na. By mapping the connections between images in a 3D space, we can see how they are
related to each other more intuitively. This allows us to explore our collections in a new light and
discover new connections between the images we have collected.

<Showcase caption={'spatial.are.na visualization of are.na connections'}>
	<ArenaGraph />
</Showcase>

# Background

are.na is a platform for connecting ideas and building knowledge. Users can create collections of
media and connect these collections to other collections through channels. This creates a network of
related ideas that can be explored and shared.

One of the key features of are.na is the ability to create connections between images. Users can
create links between images to show how they are related. These connections can be used to create
visual narratives, explore themes, and discover new connections between images.

The spatial.are.na project takes this idea further by visualizing the spatial relationships between
images. It uses a 3D space to map the connections between images, allowing users to explore their
collections in a new way. Users can navigate the space, zoom in on individual images, and see how
they are related to each other.

# Implementation

The project utilizes the are.na API to fetch images and connections between them. The 3D
visualization is created using the react-force-graph library, which allows us to create interactive
3D visualizations of network data. This library is used to map the connections between images in a
dynamic and engaging way.

# Technical Details

The are.na API is employed to gather images and their interconnections. This API provides a robust
interface to access user collections and the links between them. Leveraging the react-force-graph
library, we construct an interactive 3D space where users can visually navigate their image
collections. This library enables smooth interaction, such as zooming and rotating the 3D space,
enhancing user experience. Users can interact with the visualization by clicking on images to
explore connections, zooming in for a closer look, and rotating the space to view different
perspectives.

# Rounding Up

spatial.are.na revolutionizes how we explore our collections of visual media on are.na. By
visualizing the spatial relationships between images, it opens up new possibilities for discovering
connections and drawing inspiration. This project exemplifies how technology can enhance our
creative processes, providing a more intuitive and engaging way to interact with our collections.

Whether you are an artist, designer, or simply a visual thinker, spatial.are.na offers a unique tool
to explore and connect your ideas. Dive into your collections and see your inspirations come to life
in a whole new dimension.
